---
title:  "Cost of Connectivity"
author: "OTI"
avatar: "img/authors/wferr.png"
image: "img/coc.png"
date:   2014-10-21 12:12:12
---

### Executive Summary
The Cost of Connectivity is an annual report that examines the cost and speed of broadband Internet access in 24 cities in the United States (U.S.) and abroad. Overall, the data that we have collected in the past three years demonstrates that the majority of U.S. cities surveyed lag behind their international peers, paying more money for slower Internet access. The report presents the 2014 Cost of Connectivity data, which was collected between July and September 2014.

The 2014 report includes:

- A literature review of other studies that rank and compare broadband speeds, pricing, and market factors domestically and internationally, which explains how the Cost of Connectivity fits among other reports produced by international organizations and independent think tanks and contributes new data and analysis.
- A detailed methodology, which explains both the data collection process and the methods used to conduct the analysis for our findings. The data from this and past reports is also publicly available online for researchers and other interested parties to view and download.
- Specific findings from our data set for both home and mobile broadband pricing, as well as additional observations about the data. We include the following rankings and comparisons:
    - The fastest home broadband speed available in each city,
    - The fastest home broadband plan available for under $40 in each city,
    - The range and median prices of broadband services in the U.S. compared to Europe,
    - The cost of 3 GB of mobile data in each city,
    - The mobile data cap available for under $40 in each city,
    - The average cost of all plans in each city based on a range of speed or data caps,
    - The average speed or data cap available in each city in a particular price range,
    - The relationship between speed and price for home broadband plans in each city,
    - Trends in wireless data, and
    - The prevalence of data caps and modem fees.
- Key takeaways from this analysis and further research questions based on our data and observations.
- [Data Access via our open data portal](https://data.opentechinstitute.org/dataset/2014-cost-of-connectivity), including the ability to explore and filter the data, download the data, or access the data via an API.

### More Information

- [Website](https://www.newamerica.org/oti/the-cost-of-connectivity-2014/)
- [Download the Report](https://static.newamerica.org/attachments/229-the-cost-of-connectivity-2014/OTI_The_Cost_of_Connectivity_2014.pdf)
- [Download the Data](https://data.opentechinstitute.org/dataset/2014-cost-of-connectivity)
- [Github](https://github.com/opentechinstitute/costOfConnectivity)